---
title: Events
menu:
    main:
        parent: payloads
        weight: 1
description: Events are uplinks, acks and statistics sent by the gateway.
---

# Events

Events are generated by the ChirpStack Gateway Bridge and forwarded to the configured
integration. Depending the `marshaler` configuration, these are sent as JSON or
[Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/). For the Protobuf
definitions, please refer to [gw.proto](https://github.com/brocaar/chirpstack-api/blob/master/protobuf/gw/gw.proto).

* The Protocol Buffers [JSON Mapping](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json)
  defines that bytes must be encoded as base64 strings. This also affects the `gatewayID` field.
  When re-encoding this filed to HEX encoding, you will find the expected gateway ID string.

## `stats` - gateway statistics

Statistics reported by the gateway.

### JSON

{{<highlight json>}}
{
    "gatewayID": "cnb/AC4GLBg=",
    "ip": "192.168.1.5",
    "time": "2018-07-26T13:36:31Z",
    "location": {                   // only set when gateway has GPS
        "latitude": 1.12345,
        "longitude": 2.12345,
        "altitude": 10,
        "source": "GPS",
    },
    "configVersion": "1.2.3",       // maps to the 'Gateway configuration' message version
    "rxPacketsReceived": 4,
    "rxPacketsReceivedOK": 1,
    "txPacketsReceived": 0,
    "txPacketsEmitted": 1
}
{{</highlight>}}

### Protobuf

This message is defined by the `GatewayStats` Protobuf message.


## `up` - Uplink frames

Uplink frame received by the gateway.

### JSON

{{<highlight json>}}
{
    "phyPayload": "AAEBAQEBAQEBAQEBAQEBAQGXFgzLPxI=",  // base64 encoded LoRaWAN frame
    "txInfo": {
        "frequency": 868300000,
        "modulation": "LORA",
        "loRaModulationInfo": {
            "bandwidth": 125,
            "spreadingFactor": 11,
            "codeRate": "4/5",
            "polarizationInversion": false
        }
    },
    "rxInfo": {
        "gatewayID": "cnb/AC4GLBg=",
        "time": "2018-07-26T15:15:58.599497Z",         // only set when the gateway has a GPS time source
        "timestamp": 58692860,                         // gateway internal timestamp (23 bit)
        "rssi": -55,
        "loRaSNR": 15,
        "channel": 2,
        "rfChain": 0,
        "board": 0,
        "antenna": 0,
        "fineTimestampType": "ENCRYPTED",
        "encryptedFineTimestamp": {
            "aesKeyIndex": 0,
            "encryptedNS": "d2YFe51PraE3EpnrZJV4aw=="  // encrypted nanosecond part of the time
        }
    }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Protobuf

This message is defined by the `UplinkFrame` Protobuf message.

## `ack` - Downlink acknowledgement

Acknowledgement (or error) after a downlink command.

The index of `items` correlates to the same order of the `down` command payload
`items`.

Possible status values are specified by the `TxAckStatus` enum in the
[gw.proto](https://github.com/brocaar/chirpstack-api/blob/master/protobuf/gw/gw.proto)
Protobuf definition.

### JSON

{{<highlight json>}}
{
    "gatewayID": "cnb/AC4GLBg=",
    "token": 12345,
    "items": [
        {
            "status": "GPS_UNLOCKED"
        }
    ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Protobuf

This message is defined by the `DownlinkTXAck` Protobuf message.

## `exec` - Command execution response

The `exec` event is sent back after an `exec` command and contains the
execution output (or possible error).

### JSON

{{<highlight json>}}
{
    "gatewayID": "cnb/AC4GLBg=",
    "token": "[BASE64 ENCODED BLOB]",
    "stdout": "[BASE64 ENCODED BLOB]",
    "stderr": "[BASE64 ENCODED BLOB]",
    "error": "optional error message"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Protobuf

This message is defined by the `GatewayCommandExecResponse` Protobuf message.

## `raw` - Raw packet-forwarder event

This payload is used for raw packet-forwarder events that are not integrated
with the ChirpStack Gateway Bridge. Currently these are the:

* [BasicStation Remote Command](https://doc.sm.tc/station/tcproto.html#remote-command)
* [BaiscStation Remote Shell](https://doc.sm.tc/station/tcproto.html#remote-shell)

### JSON

{{<highlight json>}}
{
    "gatewayID": "cnb/AC4GLBg=",
    "rawID": "gsy9FN+rTwOEL8YzJJo+Kw==",
    "payload": "[BASE64 ENCODED BLOB]"
}
{{</highlight>}}

### Protobuf

This message is defined by the `RawPacketForwarderEvent` Protobuf message.
